=begin latex

\documentclass{article}

\setlength{\parindent}{0cm}
\setlength{\parskip}{1ex}

\begin{document}

\title{RNAfold 1.0 manual}
\author{peter}

\maketitle

=end latex

=head1 NAME

RNAfold 1.0

=head1 SYNOPSIS



=head1 INTRODUCTION


This is the new program RNAfold.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<-h>            	Display this information


Option -h displays a command option overview.

B<-H> C<option>  	Display detailed information on <option>


This displays the corresponding section of the RNAfold manual for
the given command line option.

B<-v>            	Show version


This shows the version number of RNAfold.

B<-b> C<value>   	Set number of blocks


This switch sets the number of CUDA-blocks.

B<-T> C<value>   	Set number of threads per blocks


This switch sets the number of threads per CUDA-block.

B<-e> C<value>   	Set energy range (kcal/mol)


This sets the energy range for suboptimal results. value is the
difference to the minimum free energy for the sequence.

B<-c> C<value>   	Set energy range (%%)


This sets the energy range as percentage value of the minimum free
energy. For example, when -c 10 is specified, and the minimum free
energy is -10.0 kcal/mol, the energy range is set to -9.0 to -10.0
kcal/mol.

B<-M> C<value>   	Set maximal loop length


This option sets the maximum lengths of the considered internal and
bulge loops. The default value here is 30.  For unrestricted loop
lengths, use option -M n. This will increase calculation times and
memory requirements.

B<-w> C<value>   	Set window size


Beginning with position 1 of the input sequence, the analysis is
repeatedly processed on subsequences of the specified size. After each
calculation, the results are printed out and the window is moved by
the window position increment (-W), until the end of the input
sequence is reached.

B<-W> C<value>   	Set window position increment


This option specifies the increment for the window analysis mode
(-w).

B<-B>            	Show best results in window mode


This option specifies, that only the best results are shown in window mode.

B<-S> C<value>   	Specify output width for structures


This splits the structure strings into parts of the specified
length. This option is useful when displaying results for long
sequences that would otherwise not fit onto the screen.

B<-f> C<filename>	Read input from file


Let RNAfold load its input data from file. file can contain a
plain single sequence, or multiple sequences in fasta format. When
given multiple sequences, each sequence is processed separately in the
order of input.

Valid characters in an input sequence are "ACGU" and "acgu". "T" and
"t" will be converted to "U". Other letters are mapped to "N" and will
not be paired. All other characters are ignored.

B<-z>            	Colored output


This option enables colored output. In interactive mode, this is the
default setting, so use -z to disable colors here.




=head2 Additional interactive mode commands

B<:s>          Show current configuration

This command shows the current settings in an interactive RNAfold
session.

B<:d>           Reset configuration

This command sets all settings to their default values.

B<:e> C<string> Execute system command

Command B<:e> executes a system command. 

B<:q>           Quit

This command quits an interactive RNAfold session.

=head1 EXAMPLES


Start RNAfold in interactive mode:

    RNAfold

Pipe file input.seq into the program:

    cat input.seq | RNAfold

=head1 EXIT STATUS

RNAfold returns a zero exit status if it succeeds. Non zero is
returned in case of failure.

=head1 AUTHORS




=begin latex

\end{document}

=end latex
